Deployment preview documentation (#2964)
commercetools/merchant-center-application-kit: website/src/content/api-reference/deployment-previews.mdx

---
title: Deployment previews
---

<Subtitle>

Deployment previews let you test your Custom Application features before publishing them to the production environment.

</Subtitle>

This document describes the necessary steps to build and add deployment previews to your Custom Application in the Merchant Center.

The process involves:

1. Building deployment previews for your Custom Application.
2. Deploying the Custom Application preview to your hosting provider.
3. [Adding the deployment preview](https://docs.commercetools.com/merchant-center/managing-custom-applications#adding-deployment-previews) to your Custom Application settings.

# Building deployment previews

Each deployment preview has its unique and stable deployment URL. To build a deployment preview, you must set the `env.production.url` value in the `custom-application-config.json` file to the deployed application. You can follow one of the below approaches:

## Using environment variables

> To configure your application URL, you can use environment variables. Then, you can assign different values to the specified environment variable in each deployment environment. The Custom Application `build` script will automatically resolve the application URL from the environment variables.

Reviewer: nit: maybe [`mc-scripts build`](https://docs.commercetools.com/custom-applications/api-reference/cli#build), not the Custom Application `build` script

Author: Thanks. Good suggestion.

---
title: Deployment previews
---

<Subtitle>

> Deployment previews let you test your Custom Application features before publishing them to the production environment.

Reviewer 2: Nit: I would rephrase this a bit, it might seem 

```suggestion
Deployment previews allow you to preview changes to your Custom Application using a unique URL.
```

Author: Thanks, @emmenko. It looks clearer. Although, "allows" is a prohibited word in our styleguide. I'll rephrase to keep your intent.

<img width="563" alt="20-02-2023-at-15-21-20@2x" src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/28081510/220071638-ee685ed5-59d7-4652-8fa0-16bd88f1ec5c.png">

</Subtitle>

> This document describes the necessary steps to build and add deployment previews to your Custom Application in the Merchant Center.

Reviewer 2: Nit: the steps to add deployment previews belong more to the MC docs. I would focus here only on the application config setup.

Author: That's true. But, to complete the loop, we have mentioned the link to MC docs as the last step of this process.

The process involves:

1. Building deployment previews for your Custom Application.
2. Deploying the Custom Application preview to your hosting provider.
3. Adding the deployment preview to the Custom Application settings.

# Building deployment previews

> Each deployment preview has its unique and stable deployment URL. To build a deployment preview, you must set the `env.production.url` value in the `custom-application-config.json` file to the deployed application. You can follow one of the below approaches:

Reviewer 2: Nit: is `stable` the right term here? Feels a bit weird to me...maybe `static`?

Author: Sure.

> Each deployment preview has its unique and stable deployment URL. To build a deployment preview, you must set the `env.production.url` value in the `custom-application-config.json` file to the deployed application. You can follow one of the below approaches:

Reviewer 2: I would like to also explain WHY the user has to configure the URL, the context is missing a bit here.

> Each deployment preview has its unique and stable deployment URL. To build a deployment preview, you must set the `env.production.url` value in the `custom-application-config.json` file to the deployed application. You can follow one of the below approaches:

Reviewer 2: > You can follow one of the below approaches:

Aren't both steps required? Maybe this section should be reworked.

Author: Nope. But you can use them in conjunction. 

The ENV approach isn't dependent on Git, you can have different env variables on your hosting provider, and it'll work perfectly. 

Same goes for the Git approach, if you hardcode the values, you need to keep them separate with branching. In this case, the hosting provider relies on the value present in the build branch (configured on the hosting platform side)

Author: @emmenko I’ve removed this section to avoid confusion, as we discussed.

## Using environment variables

To configure your application URL, you can use environment variables. Then, you can assign different values to the specified environment variable in each deployment environment. The `mc-scripts build` script will automatically resolve the application URL from the environment variables.

To implement this process, create a `.env` file in your project root with the following content:

```bash
URL=<stable-deployment-url> # copied from your hosting provider
```

Then, update the `.env.production.url` value in `custom-application-config.json` file to point to the `URL` environment variable.

> ```json
> {
>   // ...more configurations
>   "env": {
>     "production": {
>       "url": "${env:URL}",
>     },
>   // ...more configurations
> }
> ```

Reviewer 2: This is messing up the syntax highlighting, as comments are not supported in JSON. Please remove them.

````suggestion
```json title="custom-application-config.json"
{
  "env": {
    "production": {
      "url": "${env:APPLICATION_URL}",
    }
  }
}
```
````
